# DS4003 Dashboard
## URL to Deployed Dashboard:
https://final-project-ds-4003-wyatt.onrender.com

## Description of Dashboard: 
My dashboard visualizes data of used cars from https://www.cars.com. The first visualization is a faceted bar chart that uses a multi-select dropdown, which looks at the relationship between brands, average mileage of each brand, and transmission type. The second is a scatterplot, which uses a year range slider and a multi-select dropdown, allowing you to look at prices of different vehicles of selected brands over any number of years. The third is a data table which uses a single-select dropdown, allowing you to get a more in-depth view of the vehicles listed of a desired brand. My motivation for building the dashboard stems from my interest in cars. I built the dashboard for those who want to look at different aspects of used cars for sale, whether to look at potential cars to buy or just out of curiosity about what type of cars are listed for sale. 

## Description of Dashboard Building Process: 
When building my dashboard, I had trouble deciding how I wanted to implement the first bar graph I created during sprint 4. Also, after looking at the layout I created during sprint 3, I spent time deciding if I should pivot from both my first graph and layout. I also decided that the bar graph I created for sprint 4 wasn't advanced enough and that the pie chart in my layout wouldn't be advenced enough. As a reuslt, I decided to tweak my bar graph to make it a faceted bar graph. Furtheremore, I decided to get rid of the pie chart, one of the drop downs, the search bar and changed the line graph to a scatterplot. First, I thought about using the search bar to type in desired brand. However, I felt that a multi-select dropdown would do the same thing. The biggest addition to my dashboard, which wasn't present in my layout, is the year slider. I decided to put the multi-select dropdown the top most dash core component because it interacts with the the facted bar graph and the scatter plot. I kept the bar graph as the top most graph, like my layout from sprint 3. However, I decided to put the year slider under the faceted bar chart and right above the scatterplot since the year slider interacts with the scatterplot. Lastly, I decided to put my data table under the scatterplot. I placed the single-select dropdown above the data table since it interacts solely with the data table. I decided to put the data table last because I felt that it was the least visually appealing. When comparing my dashboard to my layout, the location of the graphs that remain from the layout are pretty consistent with my layout. Regarding the color scheme, I wanted to go for colors that fit well with the theme of cars. I felt that silver and red complimented this theme as engines are usually silver/chrome and red. I chose to stay away from bright, vibrant colors in my dashboard as I wanted colors that would be easy on the eyes. 

## Strengths and Learning Experiences:
Throughout the building of my dashboard, I've gotten very comfortable cleaning data, really thinking about how to layout and iterate through my thoughts and ideas, and translating my ideas and layout to code in order to build a dashboard. I've also learned to not be afraid to pivot and start over in times of frustration or to just sometimes step away and take a break. Throughout this building process, I've experienced ups and downs, and through both, I've learned the importance of consistency and perseverance. 

